Hello, everyone.
In this lesson, we are going to finish our user profile screen, so from the home page if I visit my
profile.
So from this screen, I can see any posts created by this user, but I should also be able to click
on this follower's link to see a list of anyone who follows this user.
And I should also be able to click on this link to see a list of who this user is following.
Now, at the moment, clicking on either of these two links does nothing.
So to get started in this lesson, let's jump into this template and change the ATF values for these
two links within your text editor in your views folder.
I want you to open up profile dot Ejaz on a round line.
Number twenty two, we see several elements.
So these are those three links that say posts, followers and following.
Let's go ahead and update the atrip value for all three of these.
So first, for the posts link that should be slash profile slash username only.
We want the user name to be dynamic.
So let's drop in to SJS and say profile user name to save a bit of typing.
Let's just copy and paste this entire value.
So right after the opening address, quote, all the way to right before the closing quote.
Copy that.
Let's pasted in for this link.
Now, remember, the second link is to view the followers of this user.
So at the end of this, let's just add another slash and say followers, let's do the same thing for
the following link.
Paste this in and at the very end, slash following.
OK, now this file that we're in right now profile SJS.
This powers The Post's view for a profile.
But you can imagine that when someone actually clicks on the followers or following link, those would
be powered by their own separate SJS templates.
However, for all three of these pages, this top portion that I'm selecting here would be identical.
So in order to save a bunch of duplicated code, why don't we create a shared include file that can
store all of this HTML?
Let me show you what I have in mind.
So back in our text editor, if we scroll up to the top of this profile template, let's begin selecting
right after we include the reusable flash file.
So we begin with this heading level two and then just select all the way down to include those three
elements we just set up and then stop selecting right before this div with the class of list group.
OK, so with all of this in our clipboard, let's cut.
For now, you can just place a placeholder X here and let's go create a reusable shared include file.
So to do that within our views folder, within the subfolder named includes, I'll just write, click
and choose new file.
Let's name the file profile shared dot SJS within the new file.
Just paste in your clipboard.
OK, let's go ahead and save that and then jump back into a profile that SJS now instead of this placeholder
X, we can just say opening stack.
Let's use a dash, not an equal sign.
An equal sign would escape the output.
But this is HTML that you and I, the developer, just wrote so we can trust it.
Let's say just dash to output it without escaping.
Close that SJS tag and let's say include give it a file path in the includes folder.
File is named Profile Shared.
Cool, let's go ahead and save this, and if we refresh the profile screen, everything should work
exactly the same way.
Cool at this point.
Let's set up new routes so that we can actually click on these followers or following link without receiving
a cannot get message right.
Express can't read our minds.
It's not sure what to display for a profile username slash followers.
So let's go set up those routes right now within the route of our project folder.
Jump into Rouda J.S. Here I see a comment profile related routes in order to save a bit of typing,
we can just duplicate this line, right?
This is for the profile slash username Routt.
So just select that entire line.
Copy it right below it.
Paste it in the new copy at the end of the route, right after username.
Just add slash followers.
OK, we still want to begin this route by calling our if user exists, right.
If the username portion of the URL is made up and doesn't exist, we do want to redirect them to a 404
error.
We also still want to keep our shared profile data function.
However, for the third function, we no longer want to call profile posts screen.
So let's change this to instead profile follower's screen.
OK, let's go ahead and save this.
And now we better go into our user controller and create a function with this matching name.
So in our controllers folder, let's dig into user controller Dot J.S..
We want to create a new function.
Let's go ahead and scroll down to the very bottom of this file and we can say exports, dot profile,
follower's screen, set this to equal a function and make sure that it has parameters of request and
response.
OK, now within the body of this function, let's create a variable.
Let's name followers and we can set this to equal and then just use our follow model.
And we haven't created this method yet inside the follow model.
But we can very shortly, let's say, follow dot, get followers by IDE.
As you can tell by its name.
The only thing this function would need to do its job is a user ID that you want to look up the followers
for.
So in the parentheses, just say request dot profile user dot underscore id.
OK, now in a minute from now, when we set this method up, we can have it return a promise.
So right before it we would want to include a awaked.
Since we're using a wait, let's be sure to make this an async function.
So include async right here.
Cool.
Now once we have our follower's variable ready and this would be an array of users that are following
the current user, well, then we'd be ready to render our template.
So on a new line response dot render the template we'd want to render doesn't exist yet.
But when we create it a bit later on in the lesson, you can imagine that it would be named profile
dash follower's.
OK, for the second argument, in terms of the data we'd want to pass into this template, let's just
say comma and then curly brackets for an object of data and then in order to save a bit of typing,
we can just use this as a reference, right?
When we are rendering the basic profile screen, we wouldn't need posts in this case, but we can just
begin selecting from profile username all the way down to is visitors profile.
So just select those four lines of code, copy them down in our new function within this object, just
paste them in.
Also, we don't need posts, but let's be sure to include a properly named follow orders and set that
to follow orders.
Sure.
To include a comma here as well.
Cool.
Now, this is also a great moment for me to say.
Do as I say, not as I do.
What I mean is throughout the course when I've been using the await feature, I have not been perfectly
diligent about wrapping it inside a try block.
Let me show you what I mean.
We'd actually want to cut all of this from let followers down to the end of our render line, cut that
into your clipboard and we'd want to say try curly brackets and then right after them.
Curly brackets within the tri block, we could just paste back in our code.
And then within the catch block, this would run if there were any errors during any of this code,
essentially in situations where you're using a weight instead of DOT, then catch.
Well, you do want to be sure to set up try blocks and catch blocks right after the word catch here.
You can include parentheses and a parameter to catch whatever value one of your promises would reject
with.
But in this case, we don't even need that.
We can just do something super generic in the catch block, like maybe rendering our 404 template this
way in case something unexpected happens and there's an error in your code.
Your server doesn't just blow up.
Right.
It handles the situation gracefully.
Cool at this point.
Let's go ahead and save this file.
And now we better go into our follow model and set up a method named Git Follower's by IDE.